# Octav

(Romanian, works in computer science in Google, lives in San Francisco, does mararhons)

_How did you first learn about GPS-art?_

I have seen this randomly on the internet, people doing drawings. And the first one I think was during the pandemic, if I remember. I remember during the pandemic, they had found this, I'm not sure if you familiar with the movie "2001: a space Odyssey". So, you know, that monolith from from the movie. And they found one of those shiny things in Arizona, not sure if you had caught that. Essentially, they found this metal object that looked like a monolith in "2001: a space Odyssey" in the middle of nowhere, you know, nature, desert Arizona. And it was kind of cool. I don't know, I just got inspired, like: hey, I'm gonna go and run this monolith in San Francisco. So that was the first one.

_So it was more like out of boredom?_

Yeah, although I was running pretty much every day almost. There was one month of February during the pandemic, I think it was, that I ran every day for like 27 days in a row. So essentially I kept trying to run and train for fitness. And a lot of times it was useful to have this kind of motivation.

I pretty much exclusively run outside. I never run on treadmill. You run outside, you go out, and then you have to come back. On the treadmill, you could always say stop, and then there's no motivation to continue. But with these drawings, you set out this goal, and then you do it halfway, and even if it becomes really tough, you still want to finish it.

Anyways, you were asking about motivation. So it's also in a way maybe art expressing something, but also it motivates you to do something very challenging and tough sometimes.

I think I did the heart for Valentine's Day and then the third one. The ribbon, there's a custom called Martisor. It's like on March 1st, it's kind of beginning of spring and it's just like a ribbon. That's the traditional thing that's given for this holiday. So yeah, I tried to draw that.

And then the fourth one, that's kind of this Hilbert curve for mathematics. Essentially you can make multiple iterations of this that get denser and denser. And then if you go to infinity, it fills up the whole space. So I just thought it was a cool idea. There was somebody who during the pandemi, created this website called "tiny little loops", I think. Where the idea was that you're supposed to only stay in your neighborhood. So he was trying to run a lot, but in small areas. And he thought about doing this thing where you would draw a shape that doesn't intersect with itself. So if you want a loop, start from one point and end at the same point without having any intersections. And I thought this might be a good way to do that. So that's why I ended up doing this. I came up with the idea to do that curve, which was very challenging. Well, it works on the grid of San Francisco, but some streets are kind of closed. So it was really challenging to find the exact place where this could happen, because that shape is so specific, you cannot change anything about it. Otherwise it just doesn't work. So every street part of that curve had to be open so I could like run over it.

_And I also saw that you have a drawing of a peace sign that's dedicated to Ukraine, right? And then you also had a drawing of Lina, which is to this girl who has some health problems? So you also run for a cause. How did you end up doing it?_

I mean, in a way, even the one on Valentine's day, I guess it was dedicated to a cause. And March 1st, the Martisor, they were kind of both causes. I guess not very personal causes, maybe. The one with the piece sign, there was a lot of unrest about the Ukraine war. There were some peaceful silent protests here in San Francisco. And I forgot exactly how I came up with the idea, but I thought it would be kind of a fun way to show my support. I think in particular for this one, I realized I made a lot of mistakes during the run. I actually thought it was a good metaphor for piece, that it wasn't really a perfect sign. It was hell of a lot of other things.

Lina is a lot more personal. So there's a colleague from high school who has a kid who has this genetic disease, CDKL5 disorder. And I think it was three years ago, maybe the first time where during the month of June they had this thing where there's a donor who matches miles. So whatever you recorded as walks, runs, hikes, you recorded it on the platform and then each mile is matched to $1 donated by this person and up to something like 20 000 miles. So then it's both raising awareness and direct donations through those to that campaign, but also tracking these miles and having the donor kind of match them with the monetary donation. So, I think it was a third year this year that I've done that. And I kind of realized how much this is particularly tough for the parents because it's just like the way the disease is, it's very hard to communicate with them. And I thought, we were kind of a group of three colleagues of us doing these runs every day. And I just thought was a very nice way to kind of show my support. And, uh, I get the idea. I want to write this. I had the picture in my head. It should be a cursive font. And I pretty much had the exact same idea that you see there, but it's just, these sorts of things are actually very difficult to find the right streets to do them on, because you only make it very large and then it doesn't really matter because you can find streets. But then if you want to make it small, it's very hard to make it legible. So that was extremely challenging. Plus San Francisco has hills. So if you want to make it look nice, you're going to have to take all of those hills. So this ended up being ridiculously long and also a lot of elevation. But then, you know, once I actually got something that I was happy with, I didn't know exactly how long it would be. I had an idea and I created the actual route, street by street, and I saw how long it was and I was like: I'm not going to change it now. And I wasn't going to cut short even, you know, the last piece from the A. Like that was just like, if I run that much, I might as well run all of it. So it ended up being a very good training run for me.

I mean, personally, I was going to run anyway. It was like some motivation to run more, but you know, I could also send a message. So I think that was the general idea. I could send the message with my runs and show support for something and also get the extra motivation for myself because you know, once I set up to do this, I wasn't going to stop in the middle. So this was a really challenging training run, but in the end I'm also benefiting. Yeah, actually, it was actually my longest run to date. I had done a 50 kilometers of burning man, and this was slightly more of a task. It was also because of the hills. The elevation was a thousand meters elevation gain.

_How do you plan your route?_

I think I've done it a bit differently with some of them. So like the third one, I actually printed all the maps. So initially I kind of had the idea of the font. For this particular one, I went to Google fonts and I found a bunch of cursive fonts. I found some that had the characteristics that I liked. I think it's actually easier in a way because if I start drawing, well, eventually I actually went pretty much free form, but I thought it was very useful to start from something. So I just took that font, I took the map of San Francisco and I just had a few of these fonts larged out and then I got an idea of how it should look like because it's kind of tough to do it by yourself. I'm also not very good at drawing necessarily. Then, you know, the park over there, for example, the park where the L intersects, you know, most of the paths they're not crossable. So there is only a few places where you can cut the park. So based on the size of the thing that I wanted, it became pretty clear kind of what streets I have to take and in what direction and in a way that kind of set the features and San Francisco has this grid. So the north side of the grid is aligned with north -south, but then there's market streets just around the base of the A. There's a street that goes diagonally and then the angle of the streets changes. So I thought it would be useful to use those features for the bottom of the letters. So essentially, in a way, you have to make use of the streets that exist there and we take advantage of these odd streets.

Initially I was just working on the computer, so I got the map, I put a few of those letters, and I got a good idea. And eventually I went into Strava, either Strava or Garmin, both of them have this feature, I think I use Garmin, yeah. The Garmin Connect Web App on the computer, and then I just started clicking and creating the exact route bit by bit, because you're going to put it from the beginning plan, because it's just going to have a straight line. So just put all the intermediary points and then drag them around. And then I played with that quite a long time until I got it to... So the blue line that you see is essentially the route that I put. So eventually it wasn't the exact font that I found, but it was still useful to kind of understand the proportions. Yeah, then I realized there were like some certain streets, certain places where, you know, I had to align the lines from the end with those streets. So in a way, as I started putting more lines on the map, it became more obvious which ones I need to take. So it was just a lot of trial and error. And then eventually I kind of like printed it out and then I used the marker, the pink one to kind of see how it would look like maybe when you zoom it out a bit.

_And so how long did it take you to plan all of this?_

One evening slash night, something. I only had the idea in my head. I just hadn't gotten to actually plan it. So it did take me like many hours. I think I stayed late at night to finish it. So then I had to look the next day.

_But was it worth it?_

I mean, I think it's worth it, but you know, like, a lot of the things, you can't put the price on them and the values, I see a lot of things that don't have value in money, so I don't know. If I'll take the amount of time I spent and convert it based on my pay rate of work, that's just a meaningless number, you can't look at things like that. I think for the kind of messages sent to my friend and the kind of support she felt, I think it was worth it.

And what was nice about this one is my friends from that group who was also were also supporting the cause decided one of my friends decided to to send this message in other cities as well because we were all in different cities so she created smaller kind of lina texts in different cities for her aunt to run she ran one so this message got replicated three times.

So do I understand correctly that most of the time you run, well, like normally without thinking about any image and then just occasionally you have this idea and we do it.

Yeah, just because you would require a lot of planning and like one of the annoying things about running these streets is you have to wait for traffic lights and especially when you're training actively for a marathon you need to do something very specific.

So all of these bricks and also random hills here and there would just make it very hard. So yeah, some of these are annoying essentially.

_But what makes you decide that, okay, today or tomorrow I'm gonna do a drawing?_

It was mostly driven by the cause, I had the idea that I want to do this, and then I did it, so yeah, I wasn't really, I want to draw something and then I would plan it and draw it, it would be, I would come up with the idea, I want to draw this, and then work from there.

_Do you think you're going to continue doing this?_

Occasionally yeah but pretty much again if i come up with the inspiration to do something specific then i'll do it i think that's how it's gonna work

_Okay, and would you recommend it to someone else?_

I mean differently but I think a bit of dedication is required, on the other hand it kind of depends on the motivation, you can take that out, that has been planned by somebody else and run it. I think it's a really fun way to be motivated to run if you need the extra motivation but you know I think different people are motivated by different things, some prefer to run in a group so then you know it's kind of easy if they join a run club. It depends, but you know it's just another way to express yourself you know because here there's both the planning aspects but then you have to execute it so you can plan some really grandiose design but then who's gonna run it so you have to plan something that's within your capability to run it so that makes it very interesting that you have to trade off you know the artistic expression with your ability and time and all of that so it's an interesting problem.

You can just draw it on the map, but then in a way, the value of this is to actually go out and write in a way. Yeah, of course. We just draw it on the map and somehow it's not the same, although it's kind of the same, it's not the same. So that's kind of the interesting part of it. You've always drawn it on the map and you know how it's going to look like, but then when you run it, somehow it gets extra value from that. And I don't know where it comes from.

_Okay, and going back to motivation, do you think if we talk about more beginner runners Do you think doing something like that may help them to like progress and go on with running?_

Yeah, I think initially it's important to form the habit. Initially I wasn't running consistently and made it very hard to progress in level beyond the initial kind of improvements you get from running once or twice a week. You need to run consistently three plus days a week and you need to find a motivation every day, including those days that you don't feel like going out and run. Otherwise, you won't progress too much beyond that.

When my friend wrote Lina, she kind of used just some simple letters. I think she was able to plan them for other people as well very quickly. So as long as you set realistic goals for how much time you're willing to spend on the whole process, including the actual run and your capabilities, I think it can be done.
